(tense music playing)
Where's the rest of her costume?
That was over the top,
inappropriate
for a little girl, smacking her butt.
You know, maybe
you should not come.
When a parent opens their mouth,
they are ruining their child.
I'm bus sick.
MELISSA: I'm not sure Cathy
will ever fit in with these moms.
My daughter is supposed
to be doing her solo this weekend.
Why isn't she working with my kid?
No matter how successful Chloe is,
she's never successful
enough in Abby's eyes.
(tense music playing)
-MELISSA: Happy birthday!
-KELLY: Where did you get that?
Oh, my god!
CHRISTI: Melissa is very good
at making friends,
then using them for personal gain.
Vivi-Anne, you're going to do
a solo in the competition
this weekend.
Vivi was uncomfortable
with the solo that we worked on,
so we are going to go ahead and do
a piece that she already knows.
KELLY: Brooke's hip's
been bothering her all week,
so I decided to take her
to Dr. Vitale.
I really don't think that
it's a good thing for her
to be competing today
or this weekend.
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Get up ♪
♪ Get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is with my girls ♪
♪ Living on the dance floor ♪
(upbeat music playing)
You're an intermediate advanced tap class.
ABBY: Let's go, girls! Come on!
Come on.
Vivi-Anne,
where's your dance clothes?
It's in the car.
You need to be dressed
and ready to dance
when you walk in this building. Yes?
I want to recap a little bit
about the competition.
Now there are some things
that went on
that maybe you don't even know about.
Your mom was upset
about the costume.
Your mom was upset about the costume
before you went onstage.
HOLLY: That was over the top
and appropriate for little girls,
on stage gyrating.
When they went down
and opened their legs,
I--I almost walked out the door.
But that cannot happen again.
CHRISTI: We all know why
we lost last week.
It was a hideous, trashy costumes.
But Abby's never going
to take the blame.
She's going to blame us dance moms.
Let's talk about
what we're going to do this weekend.
We're going to New Jersey
and we are going to do
an acrobatic gymnastic routine.
Acrobatics is an art form.
It uses the flexibility
of the legs and the back
to execute slow,
controlled movement.
Overall, I evaluated
all of your performances.
So, Maddie, you won that competition
and the title.
I'm going to leave you
right where you were. Yes?
Maddie is at the top of the pyramid
for her performance
and her scoring and her overall behavior
last weekend.
However, I chose to do
an acrobatic routine this weekend,
so I need to pull in my--
my ringer and use Brooke,
because she's amazing.
Brooke, I expect you
to help the younger students
and I expect you to know
the choreography first
and be able to help everybody else.
KELLY: I am shocked
where Brooke's placed.
Both of my girls
are pretty good at acro,
so why wasn't Brooke on the top?
All right.
Nia, Paige,
you'll be doing the tumbling part
and the acro part.
HOLLY: Abby says she assigns
based on last week's performance.
But, to be honest,
I think the pyramid's
really not going to change, at all.
I think Maddie will be at the top
and Nia will always be
at the bottom of the pyramid.
Vivi-Anne, because you're new here
and you don't really know
all of our terminology,
I'm going to work privately with you
this week.
And so you're going to do a solo
at the competition this weekend.
CHRISTI:
This is the greatest thing
because I Vivi to do
the competition,
the title winning, I want it to be me.
I want her to dance
and be just like I was.
All right, girls. Let's go. Get up.
Get ready to rehearse.
Moms, thank you very much.
Vivi, don't forget,
you need to be in dance clothes
whenever you walk in this room,
ready to go.
All right.
One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight.
One, two...
Acrobatic routines
take a lot longer to perfect.
You have to build up the stamina.
So we need to work really hard.
I need to know what it's going to take
to get my daughter
moved up on this pyramid.
Why is Maddie at the top?
She actually pyramids the kids
-and puts them in...
-Yes.
Okay, so Vivi was sucking hind (bleep).
And I didn't expect her to be on top.
I think there are lots of ways
she can give out assignments
where you do not have
to put people in pyramids.
To pyramid them--absolutely.
I mean, this is not the Egyptian era.
Just being the new person coming in,
then why do you guys put up with this?
She's the best choreographer.
She just basically says
she doesn't want to hear anything
from anybody else (indistinct)
she's pulling for the dance.
That's what really
Abby doesn't understand,
because she is missing
the mother gene. She's not...
Well, and you know,
I used to hear that all the time
being on the other side of the fence
and being the dance teacher.
And I know that, you know,
you guys are the dance moms.
But at my dance studio,
what I get sick and tired of people doing
is trying to second guess me.
But the dance teacher
does have to have a plan.
And sometimes
she can't convey it to you.
She just can't do it
at--at a drop of a hat.
Ugh, Cathy.
I don't know Cathy
is going to make it in our group.
Okay. I don't want to be
a dance teacher
then keep your deal studio
and train her yourself.
If you want to bring her
to somebody else,
then you sit upstairs
like the rest of the mothers.
Did you ever tell anyone
that you would only have a child
if you could keep it in a fish tank
and sprinkle in some fish food?
CATHY: No. But I must tell you
that I used to say that
a good thing would be kennel for kids.
(laughter)
Just tuck and roll again.
Put your knees together.
Now, for the next part,
roll upstage to me.
Lower the elbow,
back attitude,
arm, pretty.
-Happy birthday!
-CATHY: Where did you get that?
Oh, my god!
MELISSA:
I knew it was Cathy's birthday,
so I wanted to do
something special for her.
It's really hard to trust people
at the studio,
so I think bonding with Cathy
is very important.
She seems like a very sweet person
and very genuine person,
and that's how I am.
(cheering)
CATHY: That is so nice.
Thank you.
Ooh-la-la.
KELLY: Melissa being friends with Cathy
doesn't surprise me, at all.
Melissa always becomes friends
with the new people in the studio.
Who wants cake?
-Can we cut the cake?
-MELISSA: Sure.
KELLY: I think she has a hard time
keeping friends
-because people see through her.
-HOLLY: Delicious.
-Would you like an end?
-CATHY: I want the end.
-Okay.
-CHRISTI: She is very good
at making friends,
then using them for personal gain.
That's just how Melissa rolls.
SINGER: ♪ All the frowns ♪
♪ And the ups and the downs ♪
♪ It's like I have no other way ♪
This is an acro dance.
Everybody knows
that's Brooke's forté.
-HOLLY: Absolutely.
-KELLY: Brooke should be front and center.
Maddie's not front center in this dance.
She's in the second row.
-Oh, but she's at the top of the pyramid.
-I know.
It has nothing to do with the acro dance,
I guarantee it.
I don't know.
I'm going to go ask her.
Go ahead.
I mean, I don't know what else to do.
Confronting Abby is very difficult.
I've been doing it for years,
ever since I was one of her students,
and I still get a little scared.
-Wish me luck, ladies.
-Good luck.
Good luck with that.
KELLY: If you're in the bottom line
of the pyramid,
I think Abby's trying
to tell you something.
And, you know,
Brooke's not Abby's favorite anymore,
so she's just like--she'll punish her.
HOLLY: You can do it, Kelly.
MELISSA: I don't think that has anything
to do with the acro dance.
ABBY: Ready?
-KELLY: Abby.
-ABBY: Yes?
-KELLY: I think we need to talk.
-ABBY: Watch your step. What?
What's the problem with us?
She's in the acro dance.
She's not at the top of the pyramid
for the week of an acro dance?
It's just because she's always brooding
and miserable.
That's not the Brooke I know.
Brooke is kind of going through
that junior high business
that they all go through.
And she really is
an amazing acrobat,
and I don't want her to lose that
or give that up.
She's at the bottom
of the pyramid, Abby.
You--you mean to tell me
Chloe is above her
in the pyramid in the gymnastics?
I mean, when does Brooke go on stage
and not pull it off?
She always--she...
-(laughs)
-She always does, Abby.
We'll look at the video
of the tap dance.
Well, she's not a tapper.
-ABBY: Yeah, I know.
-But an acro dance?
Brooke used to be Abby's favorite.
She had her front and center
in every number,
had her having 900 privates every week.
And I think Abby burns you out.
The Brooke you know is now a teenager
and is changing.
Well, you need to nip in the bud
because you don't want her to change.
-I don't use...
-Maybe she wants to do teenage things.
I don't think it's that easy.
I've seen changes already,
and it saddens me, Kelly. And you know...
What, am I going to force her
to come to class?
Yes. it's really hard
to get through to them and say,
but you have this gift.
Don't throw it all away.
I know you're very happy with your life.
You have a wonderful house.
You have a wonderful husband.
You got a nice guy.
But, Kelly,
think of what you could have been.
You settled!
You settled, and you're letting your kids
like the same thing!
If my mom would have told me
I had to come to dance class,
I would have rebelled against it.
When Kelly was my student,
she was gorgeous
and worked really hard
and was very dedicated
up until about 12 or 13.
And now the same thing's happening
with Brooke.
-Like mother, like daughter.
-I mean, they're kids, Abby.
I know, but she's not.
She's 13 years old.
Cheerleading--all of her friends
from school cheer.
So I think that's why Brooke wants to--
So you're going to send her
to cheerleading, so she can shake
her poms poms for some boy
to go to college for free?
Brooke wants to be
a professional performer.
But the last time I checked,
Cirque du Soliel
doesn't hire cheerleaders.
Let's go. Let's get back to work!
KELLY: Abby's crazy.
I don't think Abby's ever forgiven me
for quitting dance.
You know, I've moved on.
I have a life. I have a family now.
And at the end of the day,
all Abby has is an empty studio.
I don't know. No matter what I said,
I wasn't getting ahead.
Like, that's not fair.
ABBY:
Open it up. Come down here.
KELLY: It's the acro number.
Brooke should be featured,
whether she wants to come
to dance or not.
(dramatic music playing)
KELLY: Girls, let's go!
What time is it? It's 4 o'clock.
We have to be there at 4:30,
and it takes us 20 minutes to get there.
We got to go.
BROOKE: I feel like I'm,
like, dancing too much
just because, like, I never have time
to like hang out with my friends.
Because they're always inviting me
to do stuff
but I can never do it
because of dance.
KELLY: Let's go, Brooke!
BROOKE: And I feel like my mom,
like, really wants me to dance
just because, like,
she doesn't want me to, like,
screw up and quit dance
and be a cheerleader like she did.
KELLY: Brooke!
BROOKE: What?
I am leaving!
I don't want to go!
KELLY: Too bad!
I'm concerned Brooke's going to quit dance
like I did when I was little.
And I really don't want her
to make the same mistakes I made.
Brooke, I'm leaving without you!
I don't care!
Why don't you want to go?
Because.
Because why?
It's boring.
Brooke reminds me a lot of myself
when I was her age.
Kacey and Claudia
asked me to go to the mall,
but I can't go
because I have dance like always.
Do you think they became Junior Miss Dance
from going to the mall?
No. They're cheerleaders.
I tried to explain to her,
when I quit dance,
you know, alls I did
was go out with my friends
and we went to the mall.
And, like, I got nothing out of it.
Let's not go to the competition.
KELLY: I was talented,
but I just didn't want
to be as dedicated to it
as Abby wanted me to.
You committed to it. You have to go.
So let's go.
I think it's just the age.
I think it's a teenager.
I think once she gets over
the hump of realizing
there's nothing else really
that exciting out there,
I think she'll be fine.
ABBY: Hello.
CATHY: Hi, Abby.
ABBY: How are you?
Are you ready to work?
-Uh-huh.
-Okay.
When Vivi-Anne came to work
on her solo,
her mother, Cathy, dropped her off
because she was going
to have lunch with Melissa.
And I was thrilled to get rid of Cathy
for the hour and a half.
-All right.
-Okay. I'll talk to you later.
-Bye, honey!
-ABBY: Okay. Thanks, Cath. Have fun.
Vivi is cute.
She's a nice little girl.
But she's not at the level
that Cathy thinks she is.
I don't know if privates with me
are really what she needs.
But, hey, if the checks clear,
let's do it.
Good.
Chassé, sauté.
Chassé, knee, knee,
one more, four.
Vivi is not strong in acrobatics.
To the right. To the right.
To the right.
Her jumps, her leaps are not as strong.
And she hasn't learned
a lot of the things.
Step right, kick left.
Start over.
She's dancing at a five,
six-year-old level
instead of a seven, eight, nine.
Vivi needs to step it up.
You have to keep her knees together.
She just needs to be in class
day after day after day.
Once she's with the dance company,
she's going to be more independent.
And now we'll see
if Cathy can handle that.
All right.
Let's take it from the top, kid.
(upbeat music playing)
CATHY: I decided to invite Melissa
to lunch today.
Information is power.
And I think if Melissa
wants to be my friend,
then I can get some very useful dirt
about the other dance moms.
Now do you know
the other husbands,
-like Christi's husband and...
-Yes.
What do they do professionally?
Kelly's husband,
he works for a family business.
And then what about
Christi's husband?
Christi's husband works
for Children's Hospital.
-Oh, really?
-Yeah. He's like, a...
-Is he a doctor?
-No.
-He's a writer.
-Oh.
I'm not really sure.
And then what about Holly's husband?
What does he do?
MELISSA:
He just got a new job.
He was working in, like,
non-profit organizations.
Okay.
So what does your husband do?
I'm--I'm going through
a divorce right now, so I'm not...
-Oh.
-MELISSA: Yeah.
CATHY: Yeah.
The girls are okay with the divorce?
Mm-hmm.
Melissa did not tell me
that she was living
with another man who was paying
for her daughter's dance lessons.
I got that from the other moms,
so I already knew that.
It doesn't seem, Melissa, like,
you're like really, really, really close
-with some of those other moms.
-No.
You can't trust anybody.
CATHY: Melissa's in charge
of scheduling private lessons,
so I may need a favor
from time to time.
I told her if she needed
to talk about anything
that she could definitely come
and confide to me.
But I'm busy.
I'm not going through a divorce.
-I have a new BFF.
-I think so, too! (laughs)
CATHY: I feel sorry for people
that are going through divorces,
but I'm happy with my life.
-Thank you. It was wonderful.
-Thank you.
-We'll be back.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Girls, does anyone know
where Paige and Brooke are?
Why are they late?
This acrobatic routine
is just not coming along
as quickly as I would like.
They need to start picking it up.
KELLY: All right, let's go. Hurry up.
ABBY: Up straight.
Too fast, Maddie.
All right, go back. You guys are late.
You two go up there and warm up.
Watch what we've done so far.
Because I did a whole bunch
So what, did Brooke come home
and didn't want to come?
Yeah. She didn't want to come
because it's a break at school
and her friends are all going to the mall.
-It's hard to beat 13.
-Exactly.
How do you tell her, oh,
you can't go to the mall with your friends
-because dance is mandatory.
-You have to go dance
-with your little sister.
-Yeah.
(dramatic music playing)
Nia, arms come over your head, straight.
You keep bringing them up out here.
You need to run further downstage.
Get up there.
Melissa and Cathy
went to lunch today.
They went to lunch?
Well, how about her bringing
in the birthday cake?
-KELLY: And a present.
-I know. (laughs)
KELLY: A present.
Meanwhile, I had a baby,
like, a baby.
And she didn't even give me a card,
so you know much she likes me.
Hello.
KELLY: Miss Holly,
you're here early.
-I am.
-CHRISTI: Hello!
ABBY: A six and a seven and a eight!
MELISSA: Hi, girls.
-HOLLY: Hi. How are you?
-I'm good. How are you?
HOLLY: I'm fine.
I went to lunch today with Cathy.
Did you?
She's funny.
KELLY: I like Melissa a lot,
but I don't trust her.
So what did Cathy have to say?
Does she like it here?
We really didn't talk about
that--that much
but she did say
that it's very unorganized.
I've caught her a lot of times
lying to me.
It's hard to call somebody
that lies to you a friend.
But their studio is very competitive.
They're competitive against one another.
Not only the kids but more the parents?
Yeah.
HOLLY: That's a surprise.
So what did you have to say about me?
Nothing.
She talked about your husbands.
You talked about my husband?
All of them.
Really?
-So what the hell did you talk about?
-Yeah. What did you talk about?
She just asked about the husbands.
CHRISTI: First of all,
you don't really even know my husband.
Second, why aren't you telling her
about your situation?
Because you're the one
in the middle of a divorce.
-KELLY: Does she know you're separated?
-Yeah.
I'm not talking about it, though.
KELLY: I don't understand why
Melissa even brought that up.
Oh, by the way, Cathy was asking
about your husband.
It just seemed weird.
I really--we had a good time.
It was nice.
CHRISTI: If you're going to gossip
about anybody's home situation
and their men,
you need to talk about yourself.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: All right.
Whenever you're near a big city,
New York City, New Jersey,
the kids are going to be amazing.
Got it? So give me a high five.
Brooke, stop looking at your mother.
I am the coach. Look at this.
Your knees, bent.
Your supporting foot's not turned out.
We have two days
before the Starbound competition
in New Jersey.
And my lead
in the acrobatic routine, Brooke,
is dragging her feet
and slowing all the production down.
Let's go, girls. Did you come here
to dance or to play? Come on.
Brooke really is an amazing acrobat,
and I don't want her to lose that
or give that up.
So I wanted to do a number
where the other children,
who are quite a bit younger,
could have a role model of follow.
Ready?
Girls, she gets her ankle, ankle, go.
I think that Brooke--
one of the reasons why
she doesn't want to come
is because with her dancing
with kids this young,
like, especially in gymnastics,
she's more advanced.
-Yeah.
-I mean, even her doing her--
that solo part in there,
it just seems like...
she's bored.
(dramatic music playing)
To the floor.
To the floor, Brooke.
You were on the wrong foot.
Uh, Brooke.
What's taking so long?
BROOKE: Well, my hip hurts.
ABBY: Brooke must have injured her hips
several weeks ago,
and it's now inflamed
and it's bothering her because
we're doing all these new routines.
I have to figure this out.
My hip is hurting.
What?
My hip still hurts.
Okay. Do you want me to see
if I can take you to the chiropractor,
real quick?
CHRISTI: What's the matter?
Her hip and her ankle and--
she's falling apart.
It's that old age.
I was just going to say, you turn 13
-and you're no good anymore.
-You're falling apart.
It's common for a dancer
to dance through an injury.
When I was a dancer,
I always had complications.
You know, you always had injuries.
Either it was a sprained ankle
or a pulled muscle,
and you just had to work through it.
(indistinct chatter)
(upbeat music playing)
CATHY: Give me your bag.
It is wet.
Why is your bag wet, Vivi?
Probably from my applesauce.
What did it do, have an explosion?
Mm-hmm.
Oh, my God, Vivi.
VIVI-ANNE: That always happens.
But this?
Oh, my gosh.
-CATHY: What is that?
-VIVI-ANNE: I don't know.
CATHY: I don't understand what you did.
Don't sickle your foot.
-Do all of them.
-Here. Here.
-Push.
-Do all--
I hear you! Push your foot.
Push your heel forward.
-Do all--
-That's beautiful.
Vivi-Anne is a beautiful little girl.
If I start to discipline her now
on etiquette and appearance,
she is going to grow up
to be a very poised young woman.
Can you tell me about your solo?
I don't know.
Do you want to do your solo this weekend?
No.
I don't want to do it.
You don't want to do it.
My mom wants me to dance even more
than I want to.
Remember, I told you--listen.
Remember, I told you that I would be
at the side of the stage?
(clears throat)
What if I stand at the side of the stage
and I count for you?
No.
What--what do you think
is going to happen if you get up on stage?
I'll probably forget it.
What if we tried practicing it?
No.
I still won't be able to do it.
So how--
how am I supposed to handle this?
What do you want me to do?
Hm? Look what happened last week.
You went on stage
and you did that duo with--
I know. I like to dance--
dance with other people.
Not a solo.
CATHY: I just feel that Vivi
is very overwhelmed
right at the moment.
She has never had a solo before.
Going out on stage,
forgetting your dance,
and then just standing there--
just standing there
and then finally running off
is the--is the ultimate worst thing
to happen at competition.
Not only are you embarrassed,
but the judges--
they're not even going to score you.
It's no different than a child
who comes into class
and pees their pants
and doesn't want to go back
in the dance studio.
Mentally, she is not prepared.
(dramatic music playing)
DR. VITALE: How you doing? Dr. Vitale.
-Very nice to meet you guys.
-(chuckles)
DR. VITALE: Come on back.
KELLY: Brooke's hip's
been bothering her all week.
She had pulled some muscles,
and I'm just worried about
how she's going to be able
to perform with it.
So I decided to take her to a chiropractor
for the first time.
How did you hurt it, do you know?
-She's a dancer.
-DR. VITALE: Okay.
And she does a lot of contortion tricks.
Is it like, a sharp, stabbing pain,
an achy pain?
When I do a split and stuff,
it's, like, shooting pain.
DR. VITALE: Okay.
And what have you been doing for it--
anything since it started?
-We've put ice on it...
-Okay.
...when it first happened.
DR. VITALE: That's good.
KELLY: And sometimes,
she sleeps with a heating pad.
That's not good.
Did you have problems practicing?
Any stuff with splits in it is tough.
KELLY: Me, as a mom, I'm worried
to allow her to go on stage
and perform an acrobatic routine
because it is very strenuous on the hip.
I just don't know what to do.
I don't know if I should allow her
or if I should make her stay out.
Okay. What I want you to do
is kind of bend over.
Okay, just at your waist.
Tell me if it causes any problems.
BROOKE: Right there.
-Where do you feel the pain?
-Right here.
Okay. How about over to this side?
-Mm-hmm.
-Same place?
Okay.
KELLY: Football players play in games
every weekend being injured.
You know, I mean, it's just--
it's what you have to do.
I think Brooke will be fine.
Okay. You're talking about
some serious problems.
We don't want to go there.
(suspenseful music playing)
At this point, I really don't think
that it's a good thing
for her to be competing today
or this weekend,
to be honest with you.
We have to.
(dramatic music playing)
MELISSA: This weekend,
we're going to Starbound,
and it's in Voorhees, New Jersey.
It is closer to New York City,
so I'm hoping that the competition
is going to be a little bit more fierce.
Okay. We're all here.
-(laughter)
-Let's go.
The worst part of going your competition
is the moms.
I wish they would just all stay home.
Steve, I know how I know you.
Do you drive the bus
to the Wine Fest and stuff?
ABBY: It's not a party.
It's not a vacation.
They are there to work.
Find a seat! Let's go!
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Bus driver!
If you go and you go to the right,
we're going to take to the streets
and hit the parkway.
CHRISTI: Abby is a nightmare
to ride on the bus with.
Keep going straight.
Bus driver!
I mean, the guy wants to kill himself.
He's thinking, where did I pick
the short stick
to end up with this broad?
(upbeat music playing)
GIRL: Your eyes look really big.
(laughter)
So where's your new BFF, Cathy, today?
(classical music playing)
MELISSA: Cathy wasn't on the bus
because it was, like, a six hour ride.
So she just drove to New Jersey.
I don't think she was too into the bus.
No, I don't think
she liked the bus, either.
I'm bus sick, already.
-You're kidding me.
-No.
So, honey,
are you excited about where we're going?
-Yeah.
-Okay.
So when we get there,
I want you to be all smiles.
-Okay?
-Okay.
Okay. How about pointed toes
and straight knees?
-Yeah.
-CATHY: Yeah.
Okay. Is your nose stuffy, honey?
-A little bit.
-A little bit?
Okay. You sound a little nasally.
Let's try to get--
put a smile on your face.
(instrumental music playing)
My hip hurts.
Does it feel bruised or does it feel...
like, hurt inside?
Inside.
It still hurts the same way it did before.
KELLY: With Brooke being the feature
acrobat of this dance,
if she does not compete this weekend
we will lose the competition.
BROOKE: I think I hurt my hip
while I was dancing.
And I went to the doctor
to see what was wrong with it.
They think I strained it.
ABBY: You just have to grind that down.
Those hip flexors, they catch on the bone
as she's growing.
And you need to open that turnout up,
so as it happens it grinds down.
And then it won't hurt anymore.
BROOKE: Miss Abby said that
I should, like, grind it down.
But that's just her opinion.
I don't really trust her.
(engine revving)
(whimsical music playing)
CATHY: The other thing I want to talk
to you about, honey--
you know that we've traveled a long way...
-Uh-huh.
-...and it's going to be disappointing
if we don't win the competition.
So we have to be prepared for that.
-Okay.
-We could have a letdown, okay?
Okay.
CATHY: A little bit lighter, "Okay."
CATHY: Can you emphasize the K?
-"Okay."
-Okay.
Okay.
(upbeat music playing)
CHRISTI: We finally arrived in New Jersey.
I was so grateful.
Usually when we go to dance competitions,
we arrive the night before,
but not today.
Of course, we're only arriving
two hours early.
Chloe's stressed out.
I'm stressed out.
This is aging me a little bit.
ABBY: Starbound talent competition
in Voorhees, New Jersey,
is right outside of New York City.
I'm sure we're going to come up
against some amazing students.
(applause)
ABBY: I think the judges are going to be
looking for technique,
definitely innovative ideas,
high end costumes
and, of course, their performance.
We only have two numbers
competing this weekend--
the acro group,
and I have Vivi-Anne
doing her Bumblebee solo.
So it's an easy weekend for me.
(dramatic music playing)
CHRISTI: Let's wear the big ones.
MELISSA: They had Brooke
and Paige in them.
Hi, guys. Hi, ladies.
-Hi, Melissa.
-MELISSA: Hi.
-I'm Rita.
Hi, um...
I'm going to be backstage with you guys.
I just want to go over a few things
because we have some song titles missing.
RITA: I have My Pumps first,
and that's Vivi-Anne, right?
ABBY: No. It's not My Pumps.
-It's called Bumblebee.
-RITA: Bumblebee?
But what's...
Yes. You want to come with me?
What is this?
That's what I'm confused about.
We need to--okay.
-Cathy.
-CATHY: Yes?
What is with this little Rock It music?
Um...
Vivi was uncomfortable with the solo
that we worked on...
because she had
such a lack of rehearsal time.
And so we are going to go ahead
and do a piece that she already knows.
ABBY: Our whole team is there
to root for Vivi-Anne,
so that she feels
like part of the company.
Cathy informs me
that she's going to do another routine.
I'm like, what?
I'm just going to change this
to independent entry.
You're doing what?
You're changing it to independent?
Yes.
She's not going to be going
underneath your name?
I didn't do this number.
But she's--but she's going to be
representing you.
Not with a number I didn't do
in a costume I didn't design.
Okay. Can I see you outside, please?
We kind of went
against the philosophy of Abby,
so consequently,
we had the wrath of Abby upon us.
Please, we need to change this
independent thing
because it's important to us.
I have never seen her even do the number.
I know. You're going to have to trust me.
Abby, listen to me.
I'm not one of these dance moms.
Yeah, I'm Vivi's mom
and we're involved in dance,
but I'm not that hysterical dance mom.
I know what is correct to take to stage.
You and I are over here.
And if I have to make
an executive decision,
then you have to trust me
just as I will trust you.
Cathy, I came through.
I got the costume finished.
The dance was finished.
Any other kid,
whether their mother is a dance teacher
or their mother's a swimming coach,
would have had that dance nailed down.
She could not do a dance
that Abby Lee Miller has never seen
and pretend she came from Abby Lee Miller.
I have to put into perspective
what my child's mental capacity is,
then she gets up on stage and she cracks--
I don't want it to be detrimental
for any child.
But I'm just saying,
you don't have the faith
in your kid that I do.
If you would have just ran it
maybe 10 times a day
for three days--
We tried with the bribery.
-We tried with getting her to get an iPad.
-You don't need to bribe her.
-You're the mommy.
-I know that.
-Just say, you're doing it.
-I realize that.
-I want to see her dance first.
-Okay.
-So you will--
-Give me that respect.
And when she goes out for awards,
I want her and something red and black
-or a costume.
-Okay. I can--
Okay. Then she'll go out in costume.
Moms that go against me
don't last very long.
They are hurting their children.
(tense music playing)
CATHY: In changing Vivi's solo,
I knew the response
I was going to get from Abby.
Face! Face!
Her and I are going to have
to work together.
Clear it up
and step. Look.
She likes to say that I'm her colleague.
Three, four, guns!
I may have to have special favors
that's different than the other moms.
(laughs)
That woman is crazy!
Shake. Shake. Shake. Shake.
Shake. Back. Keep going.
The eyelashes are up here.
Let me see your eyelashes.
ABBY: She has bobby pins
and are silver and gold
and brown and black,
all in the kid's head.
She's a hot mess.
And my name and my reputation
are on the line.
You know what, honey?
If you forget what you're doing,
just shake your butt.
(upbeat music playing)
-CATHY: You ready?
-(cheering and applause)
You ready?
ANNOUNCER: Number 431
featuring Vivi-Anne Stein,
This Little Girl's Now.
(cheers and applause)
CATHY: Shake it out.
(country music playing)
CATHY: And walk, two, three, four,
five, six, seven--
four, five, six, seven, eight.
One, two, three, four, out, five six...
High kick.
ABBY: When I'm judging,
I look at the level of difficulty.
CATHY: Scoot back!
ABBY: I think that Vivi-Anne
is capable of doing
more difficult choreography
than she was given.
(cheers and applause)
(laughter)
Oh.
You made one boo-boo.
It's okay. It's okay.
ABBY: I am going to pry her away
from her mother.
I am going to cut those apron strings.
And I am going to make
that child a better dancer.
(dramatic music playing)
ANNOUNCER: At this time,
I would like to have
the following young ladies,
please, step forward.
Number 431, Vivi-Anne.
(cheering and applause)
Good job. Congratulations.
And who taught you this number?
VIVI-ANNE: Cathy Nesbitt-Stein.
And the name of your dance studio?
Candy Apple's Dance Center.
ABBY: Vivi-Anne said her mother's studio.
I don't know if that was on purpose
or if her mother didn't rehearse her
on Abby Lee Dance Company.
(tense music playing)
Cathy went behind my back,
changed Vivi-Anne's choreography,
and ended up seventh place overall.
Good job. Congratulations.
And who taught you this number?
VIVI-ANNE: Cathy Nesbitt-Stein.
And the name of your dance studio?
Candy Apple's Dance Center.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Vivi-Anne said her mother's studio.
My entire group of people
that we had sitting there watching her...
flipped.
I apologize.
Not all competitions ask those questions.
And I just didn't even think about it,
so I apologize.
All I have in this world is my name.
Whether it be in a--
in a local competition or--
It will not happen, again.
...in a Broadway audition, it is my name.
I know, Abby, and it won't happen, again.
-Okay.
-Because that was embarrassing.
You need to move on.
We're going to move on.
-We moved on from the...
-♪We can move...♪
-Yeah, look. Wait.
-ABBY: ...from the wrong costume.
-♪We can move on♪
-We've moved on from the wrong outfits.
-♪We're moving on♪
-We've moved on--
-♪We're moving on up♪
-I know, but Cathy...
-Abby, Abby, I know.
-...this is my name.
-I know how you are.
-Okay.
I know how you are. I know.
Abby and I have kind of been
at each other all morning,
all because of this
whole choreography thing.
We are actually going
to be leaving early today.
-All right, guys, we will see you later.
-HOLLY: Are you leaving?
-Yes. We're leaving.
-HOLLY: Oh, I didn't know that.
Yeah. We're going to take off.
-You're leaving?
-Yeah, we're leaving.
We have a long drive home,
not much longer than you guys.
But we all came early to watch her.
CATHY: I know. I know.
So we want to wish you guys good luck.
-I know you'll do a great job. Okay?
-Okay.
-GIRL: Good job, Vivi.
-CATHY: Thank you.
Glad we woke up at 6 o'clock to...
-Six?
-...support her.
-Five.
-I'm offended.
Like, I really am offended.
I am, too.
Those parents are not happy.
They didn't have to be here
for another two hours.
They could have had a nice breakfast.
They could have taken their time.
But, no, they all jumped out of bed
and ran over here to support her.
And she took off.
Oh, my God.
(upbeat music playing)
(dramatic music playing)
KELLY: So what part of the dance
does it bother you?
Well, what part hurts?
None!
Why are you crying now?
Why are you crying?
-What's the matter?
-(sobbing)
Why are you crying?
Hmm?
Don't cry.
-(Brooke sobbing)
-Tell me what's the matter.
I just don't know what's going on
with her.
Brooke never cries.
If Brooke's hurt, I don't want her
to hold anything back from me,
especially with her being a teenager.
I think she needs to be
as open with me as possible.
(dramatic music playing)
Okay. So you going to go out there
and show them how it's done?
Yeah?
You're going to be the group leader today.
So I don't know
if she was just feeling pressure
of going out on stage
and not being able to do her best
or if she just was really hurting.
I don't know if she can pull it off.
Well, I got emotional for a number
because I'm really nervous
about doing my acro routine.
I'm not sure if I'll be able to do
all the tricks
because of my hip pain.
ANNOUNCER: And number 433,
Ups and Downs.
(cheers and applause)
(soft dramatic music playing)
(cheering and applause)
SINGER: ♪All that I've found♪
♪Through the ups and the downs♪
♪Is that I'd have it no other way♪
♪Life in the raw♪
♪Is both fragile and strong♪
♪Both lovely and ugly, the same♪
♪Who can attest ♪
♪That when they're at their best♪
♪Oh, their worst♪
♪Is still crouching close behind?♪
MELISSA: Good job, Kenz.
(cheering and applause)
KELLY: Good.
Oh, thank God.
Brooke's the type of girl
that even if it bothers her,
she's going to go out there
and she's going to do
what she was supposed to do
with the group.
She's not going to change it.
She's not going to mark it down.
All dancers get injuries,
have pain--part of the job.
SINGER: ♪Be it haunting, be it sweet♪
♪Unashamed of what anyone might hear♪
♪So when the load♪
♪Breaks your back and your will♪
♪You must still keep your heart
in the game♪
♪To live and to love♪
♪Will always be dangerous♪
♪But it's better than playing it safe♪
♪So let it go♪
♪When it don't feel like home♪
♪When inside is your only escape ♪
♪To live and to love♪
♪Will always be dangerous♪
♪But would you want it any other way?♪
(cheers and applause)
I'm really proud of the girls,
especially Brooke.
She had a rough week and she came through.
She hit all of her tumbling passes,
all of the acro moves,
and really was a great leader
and a good role model
for the rest of the kids.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Are you ready?
(indistinct)
ABBY: At a competition like this,
Starbound this weekend,
when I sit the audience
and I listen to the awards,
either you won it all
or you didn't even place.
So it's--it's really nerve wracking.
Small Group Acro, 9 and 10, 19 and 7,
Mama Mia, they're getting gold.
It's that extra special something
the judges seem to know them.
It's going to 433, Ups and Downs,
-Abby Lee Dance Company.
-(cheering and applause)
ABBY: It was great to receive
a special judges award.
That kind of tells me
that they appreciated what I'm doing,
and that it stood out to them
among all the other numbers.
ANNOUNCER: All right.
We're down to the top three, folks.
You getting nervous?
Third place,
it's going to 225, Poppy Symphony.
-That's (indistinct) Studio.
-(applause)
ANNOUNCER: Second place--
Pages of My Letters,
(inaudible) Dance Academy.
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: Top Junior Group...
is going to Ups and Downs, 433.
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Top Junior Group, all day.
You had 294.
That's Elite Gold.
It's so close to a perfect score.
Who is teaching you so well?
Miss Abby.
Miss Abby, you got great dancers up here.
Now, are all of you girls
really best friends?
Of course.
ANNOUNCER: Of course.
BROOKE: I was very nervous
because of my hip.
And I didn't think I'd be able to do
a lot of things.
But I guess we pulled it off
because we got first place.
This weekend, my friends asked me
to go to the mall with them
and there was, like, two parties going on.
But since we won,
everything, like, turned out okay.
It's hard to decide
which I would have rather been to
because I don't know how the parties went.
Because I was here, instead. (chuckles)
KELLY: I'm very proud of Brooke
for pushing through it
and, you know, dealing with the pain,
and getting up there and doing her best.
I think she did a great job,
and we won.
It feels good to win.
ABBY: Smile!
Brooke, arms pretty. Good.
Shoot it.
Winning the overall first place
is the best you can be.
That's it. You came to win and you win.
But it's my job,
as their teacher and their coach,
to keep them grounded.
So Monday,
when we go back into the studio,
I have to knock them down a few pegs.
You have to keep a dancer humble.
There's always room for improvement,
and that's my job.
Mommy can say, "It's fabulous,"
and "You're the best,"
but I have to tell them,
"There's somebody out there better."
"There's always someone
going to be better than you."
(theme music playing)